---
title: My new portfolio
image: book.jpg
date: 2024-02-12 12:00:00 
categories: [introduction, post]
tags: [hello,welcome]
---

# Welcome to My Portfolio Site!

The purpose of this website is to document my learning progress in the world of Computer Science. It serves to better track my journey in various domains such as security, system administration, cloud computing, coding, and much more!

## How I Made This Site

There's no better first post than to share how I created this site, so that anyone else wondering how to get started can dive in right away. The main tool I used is a static site generator named Jekyll.

## Steps

1. **Install Required Software**: Ensure you have the latest versions of Ruby, Git, Bundler, and Jekyll installed.
2. **Choose a Theme**: Fork a repository that has a Jekyll-compatible theme you like. I chose Chirpy because it supports light/dark mode and has a great aesthetic.
3. **Clone the Repository**: Clone the repository locally and modify the `config.yml` file to set your corresponding timezone, title, tagline, description, and URL (it should point to `GITHUBUSERNAME.github.io`).
4. **Install Dependencies**: Use Bundler to download the necessary dependencies.
5. **Test Locally**: Run the command `bundle exec jekyll serve` to test the site locally.
6. **Create Your First Post**: Add a Markdown file to your posts sub-directory and include the necessary front matter. The front matter looks like this:

   ```markdown
   ---
   title: My New Portfolio
   date: 2024-02-12 12:00:00
   categories: [introduction, post]
   tags: [hello, welcome]
   ---
   ```
7. Lastly, push the new code to your repository. This is when the site itself will be built and the code will be analyzed with ubuntu then added to pages via GitHub Actions</li>
</ol>

This is a very easy way to get a nice looking portfolio/blog site up and running in an hour or less. I plan to advance this site by:

<ul>
  <li>Customizing the favicon: Adjuset the small 25*25 image in each tab on a web browser to something more personalized.</li>
  <li>Alter and customize the CSS for the site to my liking so it is just not black/white.</li>
</ul>

That's it! Hope you enjoyed my first post there are many more to come.