---
title: Creating an Azure Active Directory Homelab
image: activedirectory.png
date: 2024-03-03 12:00:00 
categories: [azure, ad]
tags: [cloud,it]
---

# Objectives
I made this lab during the summer of 2023 in my time preparing for more advanced roles beyond my current IT Support role at the time. It taught me a lot about the basics of Windows Networking as well as Active Directory.

## What is Active Directory
If you have ever had the chance to look inside a corporate business network, you will almost always see Active Directory being used to provision and manage all workstations under the network. Active Directory is what makes Windows Servers so critical to a large-scale business network. With its seamlessly easy-to-use management console and Single Sign On (SSO) functionalities, Active Directory is a critical service utilized by most large-scale business networks.

Active Directory is server service used to set security controls and permissions in a Windows environment. Due to the large magnitude of computer workstations, services, and devices used on a corporate network, there needs to be a way or process of centrally managing all of these devices, while having the ability to set specific permissions on each device. Active Directory is the service used to accomplish this task.

In everyday terms it is what allows you to sign in on any workstation in an enterprise settings where you have not logged in on that machine before.

### Tools Needed
<ul>
<li>VirtualBox</li>
<li>Windows 10 ISO File</li>
<li>Windows Server 2019 ISO File</li>
</ul>

### Steps I Took
<ol>
<li>Download and install VirtualBox</li>
<li>Download Windows 10 and Server 2019ISO File</li>
<li>Create Domain controller VM with two network adapters that will house AD. One adapter will be the outside internet and the other will be Virtual Box private network. IP addresses will then be setup on the corresponding NIC's. </li>
<li>Install active directory and create a domain with NAT routing so the clients can reach the internet from the Domain Controller.</li>
<li>Run a script to create 1000 fake active directory users.</li>
<li>Create another VM to connect to the private virtual box network "Client1".</li>
</ol>

### Scripts
The script to create the names of the users, keep in mind this is simplified for the purpose of this post.
```powershell
$PASSWORD_FOR_USERS   = "Password1"
$USER_FIRST_LAST_LIST = Get-Content .\names.txt
# ------------------------------------------------------ #

$password = ConvertTo-SecureString $PASSWORD_FOR_USERS -AsPlainText -Force
New-ADOrganizationalUnit -Name _USERS -ProtectedFromAccidentalDeletion $false

foreach ($n in $USER_FIRST_LAST_LIST) {
    $first = $n.Split(" ")[0].ToLower()
    $last = $n.Split(" ")[1].ToLower()
    $username = "$($first.Substring(0,1))$($last)".ToLower()
    Write-Host "Creating user: $($username)" -BackgroundColor Black -ForegroundColor Cyan
    
    New-AdUser -AccountPassword $password `
               -GivenName $first `
               -Surname $last `
               -DisplayName $username `
               -Name $username `
               -EmployeeID $username `
               -PasswordNeverExpires $true `
               -Path "ou=_USERS,$(([ADSI]`"").distinguishedName)" `
               -Enabled $true
}
```
Within this lab I was able to create a "mini corporate network" and demonstrate loggging in on a corporate machine with inherited permissions from the Domain Controller itself.